S3(Simple Storage Service)

It can be used to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time from anywhere on the web.
Why do people need storage in the cloud?
It makes it easy to store as much data as you want and access it when you need it.
and you avoid having to buy hardware and paying storage that is not being used.

Amazon S3 is a very affordable solution for hosting data on the web since you only pay for the storage and bandwidth you use.

Companies commonly use Amazon S3 for backup and storage, application or media hosting, hosting high traffic websites or for software delivery.

For example, let's say you want to build a website for your business
or a family blog. You can store the static content in Amazon S3 for faster retrieval and reduces costs. You can also use Amazon S3 to securely store your information and back up your critical data off-site.

It also allows versioning, so you have a record of changes and can roll back to any previous version when needed.

But how reliable is Amazon S3? Is it safe?
Amazon S3 is designed for 99.99% durability.

It is very reliable and is already being used by start-ups to Fortune 1000 companies worldwide.

Amazon S3 provides standards-based REST and SOAP web services APIs so you can programmatically store, retrieve and manage your data.

Most developers building applications on Amazon S3 use the software development kit(SDK), which wraps the underlying REST API.

What are the other ways to access this product?
You can also access Amazon S3 using the command line interface or the AWS Management console which is a simple web interface.


Amazon S3 stores data as "objects" and objects are stored within folders that are called "buckets".

When you upload a file, you can set permissions on the object so it's private until you want to share it.

For each bucket, you can control access to the bucket, such as who can create, delete and list objects in that bucket.

After you create a bucket, you cannot change its name. That name is visible in the URL that points to the objects stored in that bucket.

Will my account be charged if I delete a bucket and create a new one with a different name?
No you are not charged for creating a bucket, you are only charged for storing objects in the bucket.

Utilizing regions can significantly reduce latency to end users since data or applications they need to access can be geographically closer.

Are there limitations on what an object can be?
An object can be any kind of file, a text, photo, video or application.

Do you have to upload one file at a time?
No you can upload an entire folder, but you must click Enable Enhanced Uploader to install the necessary Java applet.
You only need to do this once per console session.





































































































































































































